README.md, before:

This project is an assignment for the course:
# Music and Audio Processing Lab @ UPF, Music Technology Group

This repository contains scripts and tools for analyzing a collection of audio files using Essentia. This project aims to extract various audio descriptors from audio files, providing insights into their acoustic properties and facilitating tasks such as music classification, mood detection, or content-based recommendation systems.

# Setup

## Data and Weights
### Audio files shall be placed in the *audio* folder.

### The following weights need to be downloaded from essentia and placed in the *weights* folder. https://essentia.upf.edu/models.html

- danceability-discogs-effnet-1.pb
- discogs-effnet-bs64-1.pb
- emomusic-msd-musicnn-2.pb
- genre_discogs400-discogs-effnet-1.pb
- msd-musicnn-1.pb
- voice_instrumental-discogs-effnet-1.pb

# Usage
It encouraged the usage of a virtual environment :innocent:

Install requirements:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
### To run the script to extract descriptors:
```bash
python extract_main.py
```

### To run the web app:
```bash
./run.sh
```

# Acknowledgments:
This project utilizes the Essentia library developed by the Music Technology Group at Universitat Pompeu Fabra in Barcelona, Spain. Special thanks to the Essentia team for their invaluable contribution to the field of audio analysis. https://essentia.upf.edu/

Commit message:

finished implementing and debugging both apps, finished statistics, updated readme

README.md, after:

This project is an assignment for the course:
# Music and Audio Processing Lab @ UPF, Music Technology Group
## Feature Extraction and Embeddings: 

Utilizing Essentia, this aspect extracts features and embeddings from audio files, enabling a comprehensive understanding of their acoustic properties. This supports tasks such as music classification, mood detection, and content-based recommendation systems.

## Streamlit Apps Development:

- **Playlist Builder**: Web app for generating playlists based on user-defined audio descriptor queries, allowing users to curate playlists tailored to specific sonic characteristics.
- **Music Similarity Comparison**: Web app enabling users to explore audio-content relationships by comparing songs based on cosine similarity between embeddings.

## Setup:
###  Data and Weights
#### Audio files shall be placed in the *audio* folder.

####  The following weights need to be downloaded from essentia and placed in the *weights* folder. https://essentia.upf.edu/models.html

- danceability-discogs-effnet-1.pb
- discogs-effnet-bs64-1.pb
- emomusic-msd-musicnn-2.pb
- weights/deeptemp-k4-3.pb
- genre_discogs400-discogs-effnet-1.pb
- msd-musicnn-1.pb
- voice_instrumental-discogs-effnet-1.pb

### Requirements
It encouraged the usage of a virtual environment :innocent:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage
### To run the script to extract descriptors:
```bash
python extract_main.py
```

### To run the app to create playlists based on sonic descriptors:
```bash
streamlit run playlist_app.py
```

### To run the app to compare songs based on embedding similarity:
```bash
streamlit run embeddings_app.py
```

# Acknowledgments:
This project relies on the Essentia library developed by the Music Technology Group at Universitat Pompeu Fabra in Barcelona, Spain. We extend our gratitude to the Essentia team for their significant contributions to the field of audio analysis.
